# ENGL688K Assignment 3: Rubble as it Relates to Ruins in the realm of Twitter
## By Philip Garrow
### May 7th, 2018

As I am also enrolled in Professor Kari Kraus’s ENGL 702: “Ruins: Literatures and Theories of Decay,” I spent several weeks contemplating the meaning of various words associated with age and deterioration.  One of the most intriguing terms that we’ve addressed extensively in that class is “rubble.”  To ground our conversation, Professor Kraus directed us to read the introduction to Gastón R. Gordillo’s 2014 book, *Rubble: The Afterlife of Destruction*.  He states that one of his research motivations was to address “how rubble affects human bodies and, more important, of how the same object may affect people with different class and cultural backgrounds very differently” (5).  While thinking about how Twitter and the Twitter Archive (TWARC) command-line research tool could be useful in my own studies, it struck me that there might be value in determining how “rubble” is employed in social media conversations. 

Before our Tuesday, May 1st, 2018 ENGL 688K meeting, I executed a search for “rubble” via the TWARC command line prompt within Google’s Cloud Shell online emulator.  Thanks to detailed written guidance from Purdom Lindblad and Ed Summers, I was able to organize the retrieved data in a Google Spreadsheet. 

The results were intriguing.  “Rubble” appeared in 17,995 tweets during two-week period that my search encompassed.  The overwhelming majority (17,662 or 98.15 percent) of those occurrences were written in English.  My strategy included personally reviewing the initial 200 results in order to identify trends, patters, frequencies, and outliers.  To borrow from Martha Kang’s identification of “the 7 Different Types of Data Stories,” I would assess my efforts as an attempt to tell a data-based analytical tale via a concerted effort to “Highlight Contrasts.”  Apparently a more versatile word than I gave it credit for “rubble” popped up in a variety of contexts, from jokes to laments to current affairs conversations.  The Google Spreadsheets “Find” option proved useful in seeing which sort of words “rubble” often appeared with.  For example, the phrase “reduced to rubble” was used in 65 tweets, while “human rubble” – apparently coined by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) Inc. announcer Jim Ross during a 2001 episode of Friday Night Smackdown -  appeared 81 times.  Further, as I revealed in my blog post for the Ruins course, the proper noun for the fictional “Barney Rubble” was incorporated into 131 tweets, a figure almost three times larger than that of his cartoon spouse “Betty Rubble” – a Flintstones gender imbalance worth contemplating further.  

During a 2017 keynote lecture at the University of Maryland’s “Library Research & Innovative Practice Forum,” Purdom provided a clear explanation of her “Advocacy by Design” concept.  She stated that “Advocacy by Design articulates a shared understanding and practice that fronts questions of how people are represented in, or are subjects of, academic work; questions of who reads and uses our work as well as those who collaborate and contribute to our work” [emphasis in original] (4).  My “rubble” data set does not present very many challenging advocacy questions; it is a word that lacks – to my knowledge, at least – any gendered associations or derogatory implications.  But it is worth contemplating the ethics of my scrapping, contemplating, and posting – both here and on ENGL 702’s blog site – about individual uses of “rubble” without the original poster’s express consent.  While one could argue that each person in my data set should have anticipated that their comments – willingly expressed via public forum – might well be subject to academic study, I would doubt very many of them ever grappled explicitly with that thought.  Although I have not attempted to characterize the individual tweets, it is certainly possible that I could do so, and some Tweeters might take umbrage if I chose to highlight their posts and label them – perhaps using loaded terms like “racist” or “narrow-minded” or even just “poorly written.”  While it is difficult to envision a means for my Google Spreadsheet to be used for nefarious purposes, it is conceivable that it could be so, although it would take a fair amount of creativity; misogynists and Twitter trolls may be able to make something of the Barney vs. Betty situation, for example.  But overall, I assess the risk of offending or harming anyone with this data set as low, and I thus elected not to restrict public access to my “rubble” Google Spreadsheet.


## Works Cited
Gordillo, Gastón R. *Rubble: The Afterlife of Destruction*.  Duke UP, 2014.

Lindblad, Purdom. “Advocacy by Design: Moving Between Theory & Practice.” Library Research & Innovative Practice Forum Keynote Lecture. College Park, MD. 8 Jun. 2017, https://drum.lib.umd.edu/handle/1903/19250. Accessed 6 May 2018. 

Kang, Martha. “Exploring the 7 Different Types of Data Stories.” *Mediashift.org*, 15 Jun. 2015, http://mediashift.org/2015/06/exploring-the-7-different-types-of-data-stories. Accessed 6 May 2018. 

A link to my [data](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1LTMXNeOAaVta4koQq3roJ7jNC8wRCyNuAOMP6wJGTAg/edit#gid=626141940)


